fix(making edits to NRAI): adding new features (#17079)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai.mdx

import aiExplainThisErrorPopUp from 'images/ai_screenshot-crop_explain-this-error-pop-up.webp'

import aiAskAiinErrorsInbox from 'images/ai_screenshot-crop_ask-ai-in-errors-inbox.webp'

import aiAskAiDemo from 'images/ai_screenshot-full_ask-ai-demo.gif'

import aiExplainThisErrorStackTraces from 'images/ai_screenshot-full_explain-this-error-stack-traces.webp'

import aiNewRelicAiLogErrors from 'images/ai_screenshot-crop_new-relic-ai-log-errors.webp'

import aiNewRelicAiNrqlQuery from 'images/ai_screenshot-full_new-relic-ai-nrql-query.gif'

New Relic AI combines leading large language models (LLMs) with New Relic's data platform to understand both your system and the New Relic platform itself, providing deeper insights and faster solutions. New Relic AI helps you demystify the complexity of your stack, solve service outages, and improve your efficiency by answering your questions in plain language. 

You can chat with our AI, interact with it in the NRQL console, or work with our AI tools directly in the UI.

<img
    title="ask ai demo"
    alt="A gif showing how to use New Relic AI in the UI"
    src={aiAskAiDemo}
/>

## Enable New Relic AI [#enable]

> New Relic AI is still in preview. To use New Relic AI in preview, click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner of any page, then click **Get started**. You will be prompted to review the [Generative AI Specific Terms](https://newrelic.com/termsandconditions/service-specific). If your organization has not previously accepted [New Relic's Pre-release policy](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy/), you will be prompted to review it here. You can either cancel or click **Accept**.  If you accept these terms, they apply to all your accounts. 

Author: Done!

</figcaption>

You can ask questions like:

```
How is this service performing?
```
```
How has this service been performing over the past 24 hours?
```

## Get help analyzing error logs [#errors]

Error logs can be challenging to analyze. New Relic AI helps you learn more about errors, query for related information, and ask about next steps. 

You can chat with New Relic AI about log errors directly from any logs panel in the UI. If you're just starting out, however, you can follow this path:

1. Go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DNT> > <DNT>**Logs**</DNT>.
1. Click <DNT>**All logs**</DNT>.
1. Search for `error`.
1. Click on any resulting log lines and look for the <DNT>**Explain this error**</DNT> button at the top of the log details panel. Our AI assistant will provide a summary of the error. 
        <img
        title="new relic ai log errors"
        alt="a screenshot depicting log errors explained by New Relic AI"
        src={aiNewRelicAiLogErrors}
        />  

> You can take your investigation further by telling our AI assistant about your stack and asking follow-up questions. For example, you can ask: 

Author: Fixed!

    1. Go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DNT> > <DNT>**Dashboards**</DNT>
    2. Click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner.

Even basic questions can provide detailed summaries that can help clarify complicated data. Try asking: 

```
What is on this dashboard?
```

```
Summarize this dashboard for me. 
```

## Accuracy and security [#secure-data]

Our AI assistant uses a variety of inputs to improve its responses and tries to provide the best suggestion to your prompt. For example, it uses inputs like our product documentation, an extensive library of example queries, and your telemetry data. 

For more information about New Relic's security controls, please see our [Security Policy](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/security-policy/).

<Callout variant="important">
New Relic AI is powered by Generative AI and is subject to Generative AI's [Service Specific Terms](https://newrelic.com/termsandconditions/service-specific). 
</Callout>

## Troubleshooting [#troubleshoot]

If you encounter one of these errors while using New Relic AI, refer to the following troubleshooting steps:

> **Your user role does not have access to New Relic AI in this account. Please try a different account or contact your New Relic admin.**

Author: These are error messages. I changed the language to make this more clear

    * Problem: The New Relic account you are currently using does not have New Relic AI enabled, or your user role within the account does not have permission to access New Relic AI.
    * Solution: Try accessing New Relic AI from a different New Relic account that has the feature enabled. If you believe you should have access, contact your New Relic account administrator to request that they enable New Relic AI for your account or adjust your user role permissions.

> **NRAI is not currently available for HIPAA or FedRAMP accounts. Please try a different account.**

Reviewer: This statement of the issue includes the fix you mention below. Consider a shorter intro like this: HIPAA and Fedramp.

Author: See above.

    If you want to get to the root cause of latency issues for your app, here are some good questions to ask:

```
What are some recent incidents in my system?
```

```
Which infrastructure hosts are showing signs of degradation over the past hour?
```
    </TabsPageItem>

    <TabsPageItem id="3">
New Relic AI can also be your partner in observability maturity. If you're responsible for ensuring that your app can handle planned spikes, such as a big e-commerce sale, it's essential to understand the state of your system so you can improve it _ahead of time_.  Try asking New Relic AI:

```
How can I improve the performance of my infrastructure?
```

```
Were unique user sessions up or down last week compared to the week before?
```
    </TabsPageItem>
    </TabsPages>
    </Tabs>

## Create NRQL queries [#NRQL-console]

[NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) is a powerful tool to gain insights into your systems. Still, when you're in a hurry, you might not have time to create the correct NRQL query to get the data you need. If you're struggling to get a query to work, ask our AI to help you. 

<img

>     title="New Relic AI NRQL "

Reviewer: @homelessbirds to get to the image shown here, did users click the **Ask AI** button at the top right and ask for help with NRQL or did they click **Query using AI - Experimental**?

Chat with AI and ask:

```
Summarize my support ticket(s).
```
```
What is the status of my support ticket(s)?
```

## Demystify your dashboards [#dashboards]

Dashboards are an incredibly useful tool, but if you're new to a specific entity or you're a product manager or executive, you might not understand all the nuances. New Relic AI can be your personal data analyst, automatically summarizing key information and uncovering hidden insights directly within the New Relic UI. 

    1. Go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DoNotTranslate> > <DoNotTranslate>**Dashboards**</DoNotTranslate>
    2. Click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner.

Even basic questions can provide detailed summaries that can help clarify complicated data. Try asking: 

```
What is on this dashboard?
```

```
Summarize this dashboard for me. 
```

## Accuracy and security [#secure-data]

Our AI uses a variety of inputs to improve its responses and tries to provide the best suggestion to your prompt. For example, it uses inputs like our product documentation, an extensive library of example queries, and your telemetry data. 

> For more information about New Relic's security controls, please see our [Security Policy](docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/security-policy/)

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about New Relic's security controls, please see our [Security Policy](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/security-policy/)
```

    Our AI chat experience can help get you started using New Relic. If you need help organizing your data and setting up alerts, New Relic AI can act as a guide throughout your onboarding process. Ask our AI questions like:

```
How can I improve my alerts setup?
```

```
How can I instrument AWS?
```
    </TabsPageItem>

    <TabsPageItem id="2">
    If you want to get to the root cause of latency issues for your app, here are some good questions to ask:

```
What are some recent incidents in my system?
```

```
Which infrastructure hosts are showing signs of degradation over the past hour?
```
    </TabsPageItem>

    <TabsPageItem id="3">
New Relic AI can also be your partner in observability maturity. If you're responsible for ensuring that your app can handle planned spikes, such as a big e-commerce sale, it's essential to understand the state of your system so you can improve it _ahead of time_.  Try asking New Relic AI:

```
How can I improve the performance of my infrastructure?
```

```
Were unique user sessions up or down last week compared to the week before?
```
    </TabsPageItem>
    </TabsPages>
    </Tabs>

## Create NRQL queries [#NRQL-console]

> [NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) is a powerful tool to gain insights into systems. Still, when you're in a hurry, you might not have time to create the correct NRQL query to get the data you need. If you're struggling to get a query to work, ask our AI to help you. 

Reviewer: @homelessbirds should we personalize this with "...your systems"?

Also, I couldn't tell from the screenshot where I'd interact with NRAI to get help with my query.

Author: Fixed this

<img
 title="Screenshot showing the Ask AI button in the New Relic platform"
 alt="ask AI button"
 src={askgrok}
 />

You can ask questions like:

```
How is this service performing?
```
```
How has this service been performing over the past 24 hours?
```

## Get help analyzing error logs [#errors]

> Error logs can be challenging to parse. New Relic AI helps you learn more about errors, query for related information, and ask about next steps. 

Reviewer: @homelessbirds it sounds like you're using the word "parse" here as a synonym of "analyze." I'm asking because we have a preview feature that uses NRAI to generate parsing rules. When you're setting up parsing rules, you not "analyzing" per se. You're chopping up your logs into queryable chunks.

So, maybe you shouldn't use "parse" here, unless you mean that it applies to the generation of Grok query language and regular expressions that parse (divide) up logs.

Author: Yes, that makes sense. I can be more accurate with this.

> import aiNewRelicAiLogErrors from 'images/ai_screenshot-crop_new-relic-ai-log-errors.webp'

Reviewer: Is this a stray import line? Don't these usually get stacked at the beginning of the doc?

Author: Great catch. Just fixed this.

import aiAskAiinErrorsInbox from 'images/ai_screenshot-crop_ask-ai-in-errors-inbox.webp'

It combines OpenAI's large language models (LLMs) with New Relic's data platform to understand both your system and the New Relic platform itself, providing deeper insights and faster solutions. New Relic AI helps you demystify the complexity of your stack, solve service outages, and improve your efficiency simply by letting you ask questions in plain language. 

> Ask New Relic AI to help you:

Reviewer 2: @homelessbirds Make sure these bullet points match the header titles.

* [Analyze error logs](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#errors)
* [Dive deeper in stack traces](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#stack-traces)
* [Identify gaps in your alerting ecosystem](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#coverage-gaps)

> * [Create synthetic monitors](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#)

Reviewer 2: This one's missing the anchor name

* [Understand your dashboards](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#dashboards)
* [Check the status of support tickets](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#support)

<Video
 type="youtube"
 id="7vBhF4Ph_LA?si=UyaTG9LwSfkqVUU5"
/>

> ## Ways to interact with New Relic AI [#work-with-NRAI]

Reviewer 2: @homelessbirds The right-hand nav doesn't seem to show the H3s, so I would remove this and make all the subsequent H3s into H2s

Author: Fixed!

import aiAskAiinErrorsInbox from 'images/ai_screenshot-crop_ask-ai-in-errors-inbox.webp'

> New Relic AI (NRAI) is designed to help every member of your team improve observability, not just engineers. We have combined OpenAI's large language models (LLMs) with our unified telemetry data platform to create an AI assistant that deeply understands how both your system and New Relic function. New Relic AI helps you demystify the complexity of your stack, solve service outages, and improve your efficiency simply by letting you ask questions in plain language. 

Reviewer 3: We have > we've

Reviewer 3: 'deeply understands' seems a bit awkward here to me, but I'm not sure what to replace 'deeply' with. I could also just be flat out wrong here.

Reviewer 3: I think in AI the term for "plain language" is "natural language", as opposed to asking via tags or broken phrases.

> New Relic AI (NRAI) is designed to help every member of your team improve observability, not just engineers. We have combined OpenAI's large language models (LLMs) with our unified telemetry data platform to create an AI assistant that deeply understands how both your system and New Relic function. New Relic AI helps you demystify the complexity of your stack, solve service outages, and improve your efficiency simply by letting you ask questions in plain language. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It combines OpenAI's large language models (LLMs) with New Relic's data platform to understand both your system and the New Relic platform itself, providing deeper insights and faster solutions. New Relic AI helps you demystify the complexity of your stack, solve service outages, and improve your efficiency simply by letting you ask questions in plain language. 
```

> Ask New Relic to help you:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ask New Relic AI to help you:
```

* [Analyze error logs](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#errors)
* [Dive deeper in stack traces](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#stack-traces)
* [Identify gaps in your alerting ecosystem](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#coverage-gaps)
* [Create synthetic monitors](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#)
* [Understand your dashboards](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#dashboards)
* [Check the status of support tickets](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-ai/#support)

<Video
 type="youtube"
 id="7vBhF4Ph_LA?si=UyaTG9LwSfkqVUU5"
/>

## Ways to interact with New Relic AI [#work-with-NRAI]

> We help you get to the heart of your system by offering quick and easy ways to ask questions. You can chat with our AI and interact with it in the NRQL console or work with some of our AI tools directly in the UI.

Reviewer 3: "you can chat and interact with our AI" helps shorten the sentence I think

Reviewer 3: Also, there should be a comma between 'console' and 'or', I THINK.

Author: fixed

> We help you get to the heart of your system by offering quick and easy ways to ask questions. You can chat with our AI and interact with it in the NRQL console or work with some of our AI tools directly in the UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We help you get to the heart of your system by offering quick and easy ways to ask questions. You can chat with our AI and interact with it in the NRQL console, or work with some of our AI tools directly in the UI.
```

### Chat with AI [#ask-AI]

> You can work with our AI any time you want by using our interactive chat experience. All you have to do is click the <DoNotTranslate>**Ask AI**</DoNotTranslate> button available on the top right of most New Relic platform pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using our interactive chat experience you can work with our AI any time. All you have to do is click the <DoNotTranslate>**Ask AI**</DoNotTranslate> button available on the top right of most New Relic platform pages.
```

> Our AI has been trained to communicate with engineers using common questions and plain language. Let's say you run an online store and start receiving alerts that response times for your `Checkout service` are lagging. If you don't have time to investigate the issue, you can simply ask New Relic AI, "What's on fire?" or "What should I handle first today?" New Relic AI can tell you what's broken in your system and help you explore the data with charts and tables.

Reviewer 3: Again, I think 'natural language' is the correct term here over 'plain language'.

Reviewer 3: I know that it's technically correct to have the punctuation of the sentence inside the quotations, but I've always thought it read _very_ awkwardly with question marks. Maybe make it into a 3 part list that ends with ", or something similar."

Author: Fixed this!

#### Sample questions [#sample-questions] 

> If you need help with where to begin, here are some prompts. 

Reviewer 3: Colon instead of period here I think

Author: fixed

> If you need help with where to begin, here are some prompts. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need help with where to begin, try out these sample prompts:
```

<Tabs>
 <TabsBar>
 <TabsBarItem id="1">Get started with New Relic</TabsBarItem>
 <TabsBarItem id="2">Improve response time</TabsBarItem>
 <TabsBarItem id="3">Take observability to the next level</TabsBarItem>
 </TabsBar>

 <TabsPages>

>  <TabsPageItem id="1`">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 <TabsPageItem id="1">
```

>  Our AI chat experience can help get you started using New Relic. If you need help organizing your data and setting up alerts, NRAI can act as a guide throughout your onboarding process. Ask our AI questions like:

Reviewer 3: This is great

Author: Thanks!

>  Our AI chat experience can help get you started using New Relic. If you need help organizing your data and setting up alerts, NRAI can act as a guide throughout your onboarding process. Ask our AI questions like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Our AI chat experience can help get you started using New Relic. If you need help organizing your data and setting up alerts, NR AI can act as a guide throughout your onboarding process. Ask our AI questions like:
```

* How can I use Terraform to create dashboards? 
* How can I improve my alerts setup?
* How can I instrument AWS?
 </TabsPageItem>

 <TabsPageItem id="2">
 If you want to get to the root cause of latency issues for your app, here are some good questions to ask:

* What are some recent incidents in my system?
* Which infrastructure hosts are showing signs of degradation over the past hour?
 </TabsPageItem>

 <TabsPageItem id="3">

>  Our AI can also be your partner in observability maturity. If you're responsible for ensuring that your app can handle spikes for a big e-commerce event like Black Friday, it's essential to understand the state of your system so you can improve it _ahead of time_. Ask our AI:

Reviewer 3: While I like the use of Black Friday here as a concrete example, I don't know that it translates well outside of American audiences since we're the only ones who "celebrate" it. Maybe replacing it with something like "a big e-commerce event like launching a new product line," or something like that?

Author: Sounds like you both agree! Will make this change!

>  Our AI can also be your partner in observability maturity. If you're responsible for ensuring that your app can handle spikes for a big e-commerce event like Black Friday, it's essential to understand the state of your system so you can improve it _ahead of time_. Ask our AI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 New Relic AI can also be your partner in observability maturity. If you're responsible for ensuring that your app can handle planned spikes, such as a big e-commerce sale, it's essential to understand the state of your system so you can improve it _ahead of time_.  Try asking New Relic AI:
```

* How can I improve the performance of my infrastructure?
* Were unique user sessions up or down last week compared to the week before?
 </TabsPageItem>
 </TabsPages>
</Tabs>

### Create NRQL queries [#NRQL-console]

> [NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) is a powerful tool to gain insights into systems. Still, when you're in a hurry, you might not have time to create the correct query to get the data you need. If you're struggling to get a query to work, ask our AI to help you. You can ask questions like, "How is this service performing?" or "How has this service been performing over the past 24 hours?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) is a powerful tool to gain insights into systems. Still, when you're in a hurry, you might not have time to create the correct NRQL query to get the data you need. If you're struggling to get a query to work, ask our AI to help you. You can ask questions like, "How is this service performing?" or "How has this service been performing over the past 24 hours?"
```

<img

>  title="Screenshot showing the Ask AI button in the New Relic platform"
>  alt="ask AI button"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 title="Ask AI button"
 alt="Screenshot showing the Ask AI button in the New Relic platform"
```

The alt text should decribe the image to an e-reader, whereas the title appears when you hover over an image on the docs site.

Author: Thanks for catching this! It was a mistake.

 src={askgrok}
 />

To enable NRAI in the NRQL console: 

1. Go to the user menu at the bottom left of the New Relic UI.
2. Click the <DoNotTranslate>**Features**</DoNotTranslate> tab.
3. Scroll down to the <DoNotTranslate>**New Relic AI**</DoNotTranslate> section and click <DoNotTranslate>**Enable**</DoNotTranslate>.

### Get help analyzing error logs [#errors]

> Error logs can be challenging to parse. New Relic AI helps you learn more about errors, query for related information, and ask about next steps. 

Reviewer 3: I think "It's often challenging to parse error logs" would help prevent a use of passive voice.

    2. Click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner.

Even basic questions can provide detailed summaries that can help clarify complicated data. Try asking: 

```
What is on this dashboard?
```

```
Summarize this dashboard for me. 
```

<Callout variant="tip">
To use NRAI, make sure you're on a usage-based pricing model. NRAI is metered in [Compute Capacity Units](/docs/licenses/license-information/product-definitions/new-relic-one-pricing-definitions#compute-capacity-units). If you aren't on a usage-based pricing model, you can use NRAI with a free 30-day trial. To do this, click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner. You will be prompted to review the AI Specific Terms. You can either dismiss or click **Start Trial**. 
</Callout>

## Secure data [#secure-data]

Our AI uses a variety of inputs to improve its responses and tries to provide the best suggestion to your prompt. For example, it uses inputs like our product documentation, an extensive library of example queries, and your telemetry data. 

For more information about New Relic's security controls, please see our [Security Policy](docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/security-policy/)

> ## Always learning [#always-learning]

Reviewer 2: @homelessbirds Consider renaming this to something like "Give us feedback"

New Relic AI is becoming more accurate and responsive the more it's used. We want to build the AI experience you want. When chatting with our AI, please give its response a thumbs up or a thumbs down. If you notice something that needs to be corrected or that could be improved, let us know. Go to the user menu, click <DoNotTranslate>**Help**</DoNotTranslate>, then click <DoNotTranslate>**Give us feedback**</DoNotTranslate>.

Also, New Relic AI can recognize multiple languages and respond in them. If you have use cases for multi-lingual support, please test them with our AI and give us feedback.

> <Callout variant="tip">

Reviewer 2: @homelessbirds I don't think this needs to be a tip. Instead, consider structuring this content with H3s so they can skim quicker to decide what they want to read

3. Search for `errors`.
2. Click on any resulting log lines and look for the <DoNotTranslate>**Explain this error**</DoNotTranslate> button at the top of the log details panel. Our AI will provide a summary of the error. 

You can take your investigation further by telling our AI about your stack and asking follow-up questions. For example, you can ask: 

```
How often does this error occur? What's the error rate? Is it 1% or 50%?
```
```
What hosts are throwing these errors? Is it across all of my hosts, or is it just affecting one or two of them?
```

### Analyze stack traces in errors inbox [#stack-traces]

Using our AI to analyze stack traces will reduce context switching and help speed up triage and analysis. 

To investigate stack traces in errors inbox with New Relic AI:

1. Go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DoNotTranslate> > <DoNotTranslate>**Errors inbox**</DoNotTranslate>.
2. Select a workload.

> 3. Look for the <DoNotTranslate>**Explain this error**</DoNotTranslate> button embedded in the Stack trace  panel. Our AI will provide a summary of the error. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Look for the <DoNotTranslate>**Explain this error**</DoNotTranslate> button embedded in the Stack trace  panel. New Relic AI will provide a summary of the error. 
```

You can dig deeper by asking follow-up questions. For example, you can say: 

```

> Hi, I have an Azure environment and am having issues with Redis being periodically unavailable. Can you tell me more about this error? How can I diagnose this issue? 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I have an Azure environment and am having issues with Redis being periodically unavailable. Can you tell me more about this error? How can I diagnose this issue? 
```

```
### Fill alerting gaps [#coverage-gaps]

> As your team and systems evolve, staying ahead of potential issues is crucial. Alerts are your early warning system, but keeping them up-to-date can be challenging. NRAI can help identify areas where you might be missing critical notifications.

Reviewer 3: how about "becomes more and more crucial" to remove the passive?

Reviewer 3: "can help identify areas where you might otherwise miss critical notifications", again, to remove the passive :)

> As your team and systems evolve, staying ahead of potential issues is crucial. Alerts are your early warning system, but keeping them up-to-date can be challenging. NRAI can help identify areas where you might be missing critical notifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As your team and systems evolve, staying ahead of potential issues is crucial. Alerts are your early warning system, but keeping them up to date can be challenging. New Relic AI can help identify areas where you might be missing critical notifications.
```

Be consistent about calling it fully "New Relic AI" or just "Our AI" after the first reference

> Chat with AI and ask:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chat with New Relic AI and ask:
```

```
Show me all of my entities that are not covered by an alert. 
```

```
Show me my OpenTelemetry services that are not covered by an alert.
```

### Recommend alerts [#recommend-alerts]

> If you have APM, browser, or mobile applications that you want to monitor but don't know where to start, you can use NRAI. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have APM, browser, or mobile applications that you want to monitor but don't know where to start, you can use New Relic AI. 
```

To get recommended alert conditions:

 1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)** >**Alerts & AI**>**Alert Coverage Gaps**.
 2. Click **Add alerts** in the top right-hand corner.
 3. Select one or more recommended alerts, then click **Next**.
 4. Select an existing policy for your alerts, or create a new one and click **Activate conditions**.

> You can further investigate this by chatting with our AI. You can ask:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can further investigate this by chatting with New Relic AI. You can ask:
```

```

> Recommend alerts for this application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Can you recommend alerts for this application?
```

It helps if all the sample queries on this page followed the same syntax (makes it easier to skim), so either structure them as a question or a command, but be consistent.

```

Or, let's say you're a product manager and you're not interested in data from staging environments; you only want to be alerted on applications in production, you can ask: 

```
Can you recommend alerts for all my APM applications with `production` in their name?
```

> Or, if you run an ecommerce site and you know that you have a lot of customers in a particular region and want to make sure your hosts don't get overloaded, you can ask NRAI:

Reviewer 3: I think it's e-commerce to maintain consistency with the use of it previously in the doc

> Or, if you run an ecommerce site and you know that you have a lot of customers in a particular region and want to make sure your hosts don't get overloaded, you can ask NRAI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or, if you run an ecommerce site and you know that you have a lot of customers in a particular region and want to make sure your hosts don't get overloaded, you can ask New Relic AI:
```

```
Recommend alerts for all my hosts that contain `YOUR_REGION_HERE`?
```

### Create synthetic monitors [#synthetic]

> Synthetic monitoring helps you proactively catch and resolve issues before they affect your customers. You can now create a synthetic monitor by chatting with our AI. This capability allows you to create a ping check monitor from the Portland, OR public location to check the availability of a URL with your desired interval. 

Reviewer 3: I think Oregon should be spelled it here, otherwise it can be read/machine translated as "or"

Author: yes! will fix that thanks!

> Synthetic monitoring helps you proactively catch and resolve issues before they affect your customers. You can now create a synthetic monitor by chatting with our AI. This capability allows you to create a ping check monitor from the Portland, OR public location to check the availability of a URL with your desired interval. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Synthetic monitoring helps you proactively catch and resolve issues before they affect your customers. You can now create a synthetic monitor by chatting with our AI. Using New Relic AI, create a ping check monitor from the default public location (Portland,OR) and check the availability of a URL at your desired interval. 
```

For example:

```
Create a synthetic monitor to check the URL 'newrelic.com' every 10 minutes and name it: 'my awesome monitor'.
```

To create a ping check monitor with NRAI:

 1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)** **All Entities**.
 2. Click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner.
 3. Tell AI to create a ping check monitor based on your parameters.
 4. Click **Create monitor**.
 5. If you want to see your settings or make any changes, select **Go to monitor**.
 6. Select ** Detailed configuration ** if you want more advanced settings or access to other types of synthetic monitors.

### Check the status of support tickets [#support]

> Ask NRAI for a summary of your support tickets to reduce the time to resolution. Revisit solutions and past issues to streamline management. You can also check to see if tickets remain open or can be closed as resolved. 

Reviewer 3: "remain open, or if you can resolve and close them." (passive removal)

Chat with AI and ask:

```
Summarize my support ticket(s).
```
```
What is the status of my support ticket(s)?
```

### Demystify your dashboards [#dashboards]

Dashboards are an incredibly useful tool, but if you're new to a specific entity or you're a product manager or executive, you might not understand all the nuances. New Relic AI can be your personal data analyst, automatically summarizing key information and uncovering hidden insights directly within the New Relic UI. 

    1. Go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DoNotTranslate> > <DoNotTranslate>**Dashboards**</DoNotTranslate>
    2. Click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner.

Even basic questions can provide detailed summaries that can help clarify complicated data. Try asking: 

```
What is on this dashboard?
```

```
Summarize this dashboard for me. 
```

<Callout variant="tip">

> To use NRAI, make sure you're on a usage-based pricing model. NRAI is metered in [Compute Capacity Units](/docs/licenses/license-information/product-definitions/new-relic-one-pricing-definitions#compute-capacity-units). If you aren't on a usage-based pricing model, you can use NRAI with a free 30-day trial. To do this, click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner. You will be prompted to review the AI Specific Terms. You can either dismiss or click **Start Trial**. 

Reviewer 3: You will > you'll

</Callout>

## Secure data [#secure-data]

Data security and privacy are primary concerns for anyone building and maintaining software. We want you to know that anything you ask our AI is safe. NRAI is built with the same security controls and standards that safeguard New Relic customer data. We will never share your data with other accounts or customers. We work with vendors that meet our privacy and security standards and carefully assess prospective vendors in these critical areas before engaging their services. 

> Our AI uses a variety of inputs to improve its responses and always provides the best answer. For example, it uses inputs like our product documentation, an extensive library of example queries, and your telemetry data. But even though our AI scans your data as needed to provide context and help you build charts and understand response times, that data is _never stored_ by New Relic.

Reviewer 3: "New Relic never stores your data" (passive removal)

## Always learning [#always-learning]

> New Relic AI is becoming more accurate and responsive the more it's used. We want to build the AI experience you want. When chatting with our AI, please give its response a thumbs up or a thumbs down. If you notice something that needs to be corrected or that could be improved, let us know. Go to the user menu, click <DoNotTranslate>**Help**</DoNotTranslate>, then click <DoNotTranslate>**Give us feedback**</DoNotTranslate>.

Reviewer 3: "If you notice something that needs correction or improvement," (passive removal)

> New Relic AI is becoming more accurate and responsive the more it's used. We want to build the AI experience you want. When chatting with our AI, please give its response a thumbs up or a thumbs down. If you notice something that needs to be corrected or that could be improved, let us know. Go to the user menu, click <DoNotTranslate>**Help**</DoNotTranslate>, then click <DoNotTranslate>**Give us feedback**</DoNotTranslate>.

Author: I had to cut this paragraph anyway! Thanks!

3. Search for `errors`.
2. Click on any resulting log lines and look for the <DoNotTranslate>**Explain this error**</DoNotTranslate> button at the top of the log details panel. Our AI will provide a summary of the error. 

You can take your investigation further by telling our AI about your stack and asking follow-up questions. For example, you can ask: 

```
How often does this error occur? What's the error rate? Is it 1% or 50%?
```
```

> What hosts are throwing these errors? Is it across all of my hosts, or is it just affecting one or two of them?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which hosts are throwing these errors? Is it across all of my hosts, or is it just affecting one or two of them?
```

```

## Analyze stack traces in errors inbox [#stack-traces]

Using our AI to analyze stack traces will reduce context switching and help speed up triage and analysis. To investigate stack traces in errors inbox with New Relic AI:

<img
    title="explain this error"
    alt="A screenshot showing how to use New Relic AI to investigate stack traces. "
    src={aiExplainThisErrorStackTraces}
/>

<figcaption>

>     To chat with AI in errors inbox, go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DoNotTranslate> > <DoNotTranslate>**Errors inbox**</DoNotTranslate> > and select a workload. 

Reviewer: @homelessbirds since this figcaption is exactly the same as the step below it, how about ditching this figcaption and inserting the image right inside the steps (maybe after step 2). Be sure to indent the image if you do this.

Author: That's a good idea, I will do that.

</figcaption>

    1. Go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DoNotTranslate> > <DoNotTranslate>**Errors inbox**</DoNotTranslate>.
    2. Select a workload.
    3. Look for the <DoNotTranslate>**Explain this error**</DoNotTranslate> button embedded in the **Stack trace panel**. New Relic AI will provide a summary of the error. 

You can dig deeper by asking follow-up questions. For example, you can say: 

```
I have an Azure environment and am having issues with Redis being periodically unavailable. Can you tell me more about this error? How can I diagnose this issue? 

```
## Fill alerting gaps [#coverage-gaps]

As your team and systems evolve, staying ahead of potential issues is crucial. Alerts are your early warning system, but keeping them up to date can be challenging. New Relic AI can help identify areas where you might be missing critical notifications.

> Chat with New Relic AI and ask:

Reviewer: @homelessbirds can I do this from anywhere in the UI? Do I need to be in alerts?

Author: No, you can do it anywhere in the UI.

```
Show me all of my entities that are not covered by an alert. 
```

```
Show me my OpenTelemetry services that are not covered by an alert.
```

## Create synthetic monitors [#synthetic]

Synthetic monitoring helps you proactively catch and resolve issues before they affect your customers. You can now create a synthetic monitor by chatting with our AI. Using New Relic AI, create a ping check monitor from the default public location (Portland, Oregon) and check the availability of a URL at your desired cadence. 

For example:

```

> Create a synthetic monitor to check the URL 'newrelic.com' every 10 minutes and name it: 'my awesome monitor'.

Reviewer: @homelessbirds how does this prompt ensure that the monitor is in Portland?

Author: It just defaults to Portland. There's no other option.

```

To create a ping check monitor with NRAI:

    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)** **All Entities**.
    2. Click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner.
    3. Tell AI to create a ping check monitor based on your parameters.
    4. Click **Create monitor**.
    5. If you want to see your settings or make any changes, select **Go to monitor**.
    6. Select ** Detailed configuration ** if you want more advanced settings or access to other types of synthetic monitors.

> ## Check the status of support tickets [#support]

Reviewer: @homelessbirds can I do this from anywhere in the UI?

Author: Yes, you just need to ask ai.

Author: Which is why I have the section called "Chat with AI" at the top, so whenever I say "Chat with AI" below, you can refer back to the section about how to chat with AI.

Ask NRAI for a summary of your support tickets to reduce the time to resolution. Revisit solutions and past issues to streamline management. You can also check to see if tickets remain open or can be closed as resolved. 

Chat with AI and ask:

```
Summarize my support ticket(s).
```
```
What is the status of my support ticket(s)?
```

## Demystify your dashboards [#dashboards]

Dashboards are an incredibly useful tool, but if you're new to a specific entity or you're a product manager or executive, you might not understand all the nuances. New Relic AI can be your personal data analyst, automatically summarizing key information and uncovering hidden insights directly within the New Relic UI. 

    1. Go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DoNotTranslate> > <DoNotTranslate>**Dashboards**</DoNotTranslate>
    2. Click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner.

Even basic questions can provide detailed summaries that can help clarify complicated data. Try asking: 

```
What is on this dashboard?
```

```
Summarize this dashboard for me. 
```

> ## Enable NRAI [#enable]

Reviewer: @homelessbirds it seems like the horse is already out of the barn. You've already been talking about this, so it seems like an afterthought here. How about moving this closer to the beginning?

Author: Great idea. Will do.

To use New Relic AI click **Ask AI** in the top right-hand corner of any page, then click **Get started**. You will be prompted to review the AI Specific Terms. You can either cancel or click **Accept**. 

> ## Secure data [#secure-data]

Reviewer: @homelessbirds this heading seemed to start with a verb, so I thought maybe it was about how I could use NRAI to secure my data (as something I could do with NRAI). Alas, this is about reassuring users that the data is safe and reliable. How about a different heading like this: Accuracy and security of NRAI responses

Author: I like your suggestion. I modified it to keep it shorter.
